The publisher is all put together.
So let's now work on an implementation for our listener.
It's the goal of our listener.
We're going to come up with a subject name or the channel that we want to listen to.
We're going to pass that into the Stan client to create a subscription, and then we're going to watch
the subscription for any time.
It receives some data.
So back inside my listener file at the very top, we're going to import Nat's once again from Node Nat
streaming.
I'll then create my clients, which remember we referred to Munich Convention as simply Stan.
So Nat Stock Connect, I'm going to once again put in some kind of mysterious looking arguments right
here.
Just bear with me for a moment.
We will come back to the connect function.
So I'm going to put in ticketing.
I'm going to put in one, two, three.
And then an object inside.
There will be a URL.
And very similar to what we had last time.
We'll put an http localhost port for 2 to 2.
I'll then watch for a connect event.
So after we have successfully connected once again, let's just do a quick console.log and say, hey,
our listener connected to nets.
So I'll do a console log of listener connected.
Two nets.
Let's now go over to our terminal and just try to run this program and make sure that the listener can
connect as well.
So back at my terminal, I'm going to find the window where I was running the publisher.
If you are running a terminal where you can do a split screen, I highly recommend you try to pull up
a split screen right now.
So for me, I'm making use of item two on Mac OS.
The hot key to do that is command DX so I can hit command and now I get the split screen right here.
So this will allow us to watch events being published and listened for.
At the same time, if you do not have a terminal where you can do the split screen, no problem.
Just open up a second terminal window and maybe drag them next to each other.
Just like this, you can see the events being published and listened to at the same time.
Then inside this second window, I'm still inside of my Nat's test directory.
And inside there I will run an RPM run listener.
To me.
RPM run.
Listen, we gave it a slightly different script name, so ampm, run, listen.
And it looks like.
All right, we were able to connect to nets at this point.
We've got a lot of extra information inside of here.
So this restart stuff, type script, logging information and so on.
So really quickly, I'm going to go back to both these scripts and right after the import statements,
I'm going to add in a console.
Clear.
So I'm going to put that inside of listener and I'm going to put it inside of the publisher as well.
Right after the import statement.
Now whenever this stuff runs or whenever our code gets reran because we changed a file, now we'll just
see the console logs at the very top and just remove a lot of the garbage that was in here previously.
One other thing I want to mention very quickly, and this is going to become very relevant as we're
going to want to start to publish a lot of events here in just a moment.
If we ever want to restart our program while we are using Node dev, we can select the terminal window
that's running our program, type in the letters R.
S and then hit enter and that will automatically restart our program.
So right now, every single time I type in RS and then hit Enter, I am restarting my program, which
means I create a new connection to the net server and then I publish a brand new event.
So if I do this a couple more times.
I've now probably published like five, six or seven different events on that particular channel, the
channel with the subject of ticket colen created.
Okay.
So let's now go back over and work on our listener implementation.
Inside of listener tips.
After we successfully connect, we're going to come up with the name of the subject that we want to
listen to and use it to create a subscription.
So I'm going to write right after the console log on subscription is Stan subscribe.
And we're going to put in our subject right here, which is Ticket Colon.
Created.
Then after creating the subscription, remember, this is the object that we're going to listen to and
we're going to receive some data through the subscription.
Contrary to how many other libraries work where you might be used to adding in a callback function like
that, that would be invoked with whatever data we receive, not how it works with node streaming.
Instead, we create the subscription first and then listen to a very particular type of event off the
subscription itself.
So we're going to call it subscription.
Scott on message.
So as I mentioned at the end of the last video in the world of Nats, they don't really refer to these
events being exchanged as events.
Instead, they're referred to as messages.
So you'll see this message terminology floating around a little bit.
Then the argument to this is going to be the actual message which we frequently abbreviate as simply
MSG.
MSG right here is not just the raw data.
Instead, it's got a couple of different properties inside of it.
We'll take a look at it over time.
So if right now let's just do a console.log of message received.
So we're not actually looking at that message.
We're not actually trying to inspect any of the data inside of it just yet.
I just want to make sure that we can actually receive a message, that's all.
Okay.
I'm going to save this.
I'm going to make sure both files are saved, and then I'll go back over to my terminal.
So now in theory, our listener is creating a subscription and listening to that very specific channel.
So let's now go back over to our publisher.
We're going to restart the publisher and attempt to publish another event the instant we do so.
And I really do mean the very instant we do.
So we should see a console log from the listener saying that it received a message.
So let's try this out on the publisher.
I'm going to put in RS hit enter.
And there we go.
We have received that message.
So that's a very basic chain of publishing some data and receiving some data as well.
Now, everything at this point really seems pretty simple and straightforward, right?
It's pretty much a basic eventing setup.
Nothing too crazy.
You might think at this point that I'm going really slowly and you might be screaming at the screen
saying, Stephen, can you hurry it up and get to the point?
Well, believe you me.
We were going slow for a reason.
It's really important for you to understand these very basic concepts, because in the coming videos
we are going to absolutely blow the lid on complexity here.
We are really going to start to plumb the depths of gnats and really understand what is going on behind
the scenes.
Because as you will see very, very quickly, some very small settings inside of here is going to dramatically
change how our application works.
So I'm really excited for the coming videos.
So quick pause right here and we'll continue in just a moment.